+++
title = "Four-story high rogue wave breaks records off the coast of Vancouver Island"
description = "A rogue wave measuring 58 feet (17.6 meters) tall was recorded off the coast of Vancouver Island. It broke the record for proportionality at three times the size of surrounding waves. The probability of such an event occurring is one"
date = "2022-02-13 20:14:07"
slug = "6209666fddbeae8916a96558"
image = "https://i.imgur.com/OGTqHGz.jpg"
score = "1737"
categories = ['gemmrich', 'large', 'wave']
+++

A rogue wave measuring 58 feet (17.6 meters) tall was recorded off the coast of Vancouver Island. It broke the record for proportionality at three times the size of surrounding waves. The probability of such an event occurring is one

## Highlights

- A rogue wave measuring 58 feet (17.6 meters) tall was recorded off the coast of Vancouver Island.
- It broke the record for proportionality at three times the size of surrounding waves.
- The probability of such an event occurring in high sea states is one in 1,300 years, researchers say.
- Such waves can pose a significant threat to marine operations as well as the public due to their immense power and lack of predictability.
- Researchers: "Rogue waves are generated by wind, so they are just a rare occurrence of wind generated waves.
- Whereas a tsunami is generated most commonly by an earthquake, underwater earthquake, or as we've seen recently a volcano eruption"

---

{{< rawhtml >}}
  <p class="article-category">
    <a target="_blank" href="https://amp.cnn.com/cnn/2022/02/12/weather/rogue-wave-record-vancouver-island/index.html">READ THE ORIGINAL ARTICLE</a>
  </p>
{{< /rawhtml >}}
